One final pillar of Ohio Pete to go.
We talked about encapsulation about abstraction and about inheritance.
And then there's this fourth one that has a pretty tough word poli more fearsome.
What does that mean.
Well poorly means many and more fearsome means form so many forms.
Now we know that methods belong to objects right.
We use the self keyword to act upon the object that got instantiated now in python.
This idea of polymorphism refers to the way in which object classes can share the same method name but
those method names can act differently based on what object calls the now.
That sounds extremely confusing so let's have a look at a code we have our user wizard and Archer classes
and as I mentioned with polymorphism different object classes can share method names.
So we have attack here that is shared but each one does something different based on the attribute.
For example when I do wizard one attack.
So let's do that wizard one dot attack if I click Run I get attacking with power of 60 because well
wizard has a special meaning to its attack vs. Archer they're different
so although they share the same method names because of the object that's calling it the output is going
to be different.
So we can actually do something quite interesting here.
Let's say that I have wizard 1 and then we'll also have Archer 1 and Archer 1 will be Robin and Robin
has 30 hours now what I can do here is actually called them in different ways.
For example I can create an entire new function called player attack and this player attacks takes a
character and in here we can say character dot attack and now if I run this code and say player attack
wizard 1 and I run this
I'll get attacking with power of 1.
If I do player attack have Archer in here if I click Run you see that the same function gives me a different
output even though we're calling the same thing because of the object that we pass into it.
Polly Morpheus.
Another way to demonstrate this is if we do a for loop.
If I do for let's say character in and let's add wizard 1 and Archer 1 into a list and if I print here
or religious run character dot attack 5 click Run here once again I have two different outputs even
though I'm calling the same method because of the different objects and this is a really powerful concept
right.
Because we're able to customize this according to our specific needs even if let's say that the user
had a attack method in this default attack method is let's say print do nothing because it's just a
user even if I run these and let's say print wizard.
1 let's say dot attack.
If I click run it's going to override whatever the original attack was because we already have that
method in our wizard class but let's say I wanted to have both user and Wizard run the attack method.
How can I do this.
Now this is something we'll explore a little bit more in the next video.
But for now I can say user dot attack and give it self because I accept the user as my parameter in
here.
And then I can run user dot attack so let's see what happens here.
If I click Run I have do nothing in attacking with power of 60 so polymorphism allows us to have many
forms.
It is the ability to redefine methods for these derived classes that is wizard and Archer and an object
that gets instantiated can behave in different forms in different ways based on polymorphism and this
is useful because we are able to modify our classes to our specific needs but also not have to repeat
ourselves in case we want to use something like attack from user inside of wizard.
So there you have it the four pillars of all p encapsulation abstraction inheritance and then finally
polymorphism now.
No amount of videos or books are going to teach you exactly when to use what.
However the idea here is to understand that these powers exist with Opie.
You're never going to say oh I need to implement polymorphism.
No.
Most of the time you're just coding along and it happens that your coding in a way that emphasizes polymorphism.
This is just the power of copy.
Although these are big words at the end of the day we've learned how to use them to structure our code
in a way that is efficient and clean and that's the whole point.
It's all about organizing our code.
Now some of you may have been a little confused when I did this.
User dot attack self in the next video I wanna explore this a little bit more.
I'll see you on that one.